CLDR-19466 Document decimal format test data files and usage in README (#5813)
unicode-org/cldr: common/testData/decimal/README.md

# CLDR Decimal Format Test Data (`common/testData/decimal`)

> This directory contains Tab-Separated Values (TSV) files used as a solid blueprint for testing and verifying decimal and compact decimal formats in CLDR, based on ICU4J.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This directory contains Tab-Separated Values (TSV) files used for testing decimal and compact decimal formats in CLDR.
```
This is more accurate and avoids the awkward phrasing "solid blueprint"

Author: done

## Test Data Files

The test data is organized into three separate files to separate core verification from extended coverage:

1. **`decimals.tsv`**

>    Contains verification tests for the **core** CLDR locales across standard number formats, compact format lengths, and representative numeric input values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Contains verification tests for a selected set of numbers and locales that illustrate most features of number formatting, covering standard number formats, compact format lengths, and representative numeric input values.
```

Author: done

2. **`decimals_modern_locales.tsv`**

>    Contains verification tests for all **modern** CLDR locales **minus** the core locales covered in `decimals.tsv`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Contains verification tests for all **modern-coverage** CLDR locales **minus** the locales covered in `decimals.tsv`. It also only uses a small set of selected numbers.
```

Author: done

3. **`decimals_extended_numbers.tsv`**

>    Contains extended numeric test inputs (covering edge cases, large numbers, and small fractions) across standard formats and core locales for comprehensive verification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Contains extended numeric test inputs (covering edge cases, large numbers, and small fractions) across standard formats and selected locales for more comprehensive verification.
```

Author: done

## File Format

All files use a standard Tab-Separated Values (TSV) format with UTF-8 encoding. The first line is always a header:

```tsv
locale	number_format	format_length	input	expected
```

### Column Definitions:
* **`locale`**: The CLDR locale identifier (e.g., `ar`, `en`, `es_AR`).
* **`number_format`**: The number format dimension (`decimal`, `percent`, `scientific`).
* **`format_length`**: The compact format length (`short`, `long`). If empty/blank, it represents standard non-compact formatting.
* **`input`**: The floating-point numeric input value (e.g., `1.2`, `1234565.0`).

> * **`expected`**: The literal expected output string, including all correct localized digits, grouping separators, percent signs, and bi-directional control characters (such as `\u200E` / LRM).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **`expected`**: The expected output string, including all correct localized digits, grouping separators, percent signs, and bi-directional control characters (such as `\u200E` / LRM).
```

Author: done

## How to Read and Use the Files

### 1. Automated Testing

> #### Testing in Java

Reviewer: Drop this whole section

Author: done

If you want to test the data in Java, you can use the pre-implemented Java test class `org.unicode.cldr.unittest.TestDecimalFormat`, which automatically loads and executes all test cases defined in these TSV files.

During test execution:
* Blank lines and lines starting with `#` are ignored.
* The `input` number is formatted using ICU4J (`GenerateDecimalFormatTestData.format(...)`) according to the specified `locale`, `number_format`, and `format_length`.
* The actual output is asserted against the literal `expected` string.

To run the Java tests locally from the command line:
```bash
mvn test -pl tools/cldr-code -Dtest=TestDecimalFormat
```

> #### Testing in Other Languages

Reviewer: Drop this whole section also

Author: done

If you want to use this test data with other programming languages or formatting engines (such as ICU4C, ICU4X, or JavaScript/Intl), you will need to implement a TSV reader that:
1. Skips the header line, blank lines, and comments (lines starting with `#`).
2. Parses the five tab-separated columns (`locale`, `number_format`, `format_length`, `input`, `expected`).
3. Invokes your target number formatting implementation using the parsed parameters and numeric input.
4. Asserts that the generated output exactly matches the `expected` UTF-8 literal string.

> ### 2. Manual Verification

Reviewer: Dropped the numbering on these sections

Author: done
